#  Copyright (C) 2002  Stanislav Sinyagin
#
#  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
#  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
#  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

# $Id: wd.distributed.pod,v 1.1 2010-12-27 00:04:36 ivan Exp $
# Stanislav Sinyagin <ssinyagin@yahoo.com>
#
#

=head1 RRFW Working Draft: Distributed collector architecture

Status: pending implementation.
Date: May 26, 2004. Last revised: June 14, 2004

=head2 Introduction

In large installations, one server has often not enough capacity
to collect the data from all the data sources. In other cases,
because of the network bandwidth or security restrictions it is
preferrable to collect (SNMP) data locally on the site, and transfer
the updates to the central location less frequently.

=head2 Terminology

We call I<Hub> servers those which run the user web interfaces and
optionally threshold monitors. These are normally placed in the central
location or NOC datacenter.

I<Spoke> servers are those running SNMP or other data collectors.
They periodically transfer the data to Hub servers. One Spoke
server may send copies of data to several Hub servers, and one
Hub server may receive data from many Spoke servers.

In general, the property of being a Hub or a Spoke is local to a pair
of servers and their datasource trees, and it only describes the functions
of data collection and transfer. In complex installations, the same
instance of RRFW may function as a Hub for some remote Spokes, and as a
Spoke for some other Hubs simultaneousely.

We call I<Association> a set of attributes that describe a single connection
between Hub and Spoke servers. These attributes are:

=over 4

=item * Association ID

Unique symbolic name across the whole range of interconnected servers.

=item * Hub server ID, Spoke server ID

Names of the servers, usually hostnames.

=item * Transport type

One of SSH, RSH, HTTP, etc.

=item * Transport mode

PUSH or PULL

=item * Transport parameters

Parameters needed for this transport connection, like login name, password,
URL, etc.

=item * Compression type and level

Optional, gzip or bzip2 or something else, with compression levels from 1 to 9.

=item * Tree name on Hub server

Target datasource tree that will receive data from Spokes

=item * Subtree path on Hub server

The data updates from this association will be placed in a subtree
under the specified path.

=item * Tree name on Spoke server

The tree where a collector runs and stores data into this association.

=item * Path translation rules

Datasource paths from Spoke server may be changed to look different
in the tree of Hub server.

=back


=head2 Transport

The modular architecture design should allow different types of data
transfer. The default transport is Secure Shell version 2 (SSH). Other
possible transports may be RSH, HTTP/HTTPS, rsync.

Two transport modes should be implemented: PUSH and PULL.
In PUSH mode, Spoke servers initiate the data transfer and push the data to
Hub servers. In PULL mode, Hub servers initiate the data
transfer and ask Spokes for data updates. It should be possible
to mix the transport modes for different Associations on the same
server, but within each Association the mode should be strictly
determined. The choice of transport mode should be based on local security
policies, and server and network performance.

Optionally the compression method and level can be configured. Although
SSH protocol supports its own compression, more aggressive compression
methods may be used for the sake of better bandwidth usage.

Transport agents should notify the operator in cases of delivery failures.

=head2 Operation

For Spoke servers, distributed data transfer will be implemented as
additional storage type. For Hub servers, this will be a new collector
type.

Each data transfer is a concatenation of I<messages>. Messages
may be of one of two types: I<CONFIG> and I<DATA>. Spoke server generates
the messages and stores them for the transfer. Messages are delivered
to Hub servers with a certain delay, but they are guaranteed to
arrive in sequential order. For each pair of servers, messages are
consecutively numbered. These numbers are used for failure detection.

A Spoke server keeps track of its configuration, and after each
configuration change, it sends a CONFIG message. This message contains
information about mapping between Spoke server tokens and datasource paths,
and a limited set of parameters for displaying and monitoring the data.

After each collector cycle, Spoke server sends DATA messages.
These messages contain the following information: timestamp of the
update, token, and value. The format of the message should be designed
to consume minimum bandwidth.

Hub server picks up the messages delivered by the transport agents.
Upon receiving a CONFIG message, it sets a preconfigured delay, in order
to collect as many as possible CONFIG messages. Then the data transfer agent
generates a new XML configuration based on the messages, and starts
the compilation of configuration. The DATA messages are queued for the
collector to pick up and and store the values. It must be ensured that
all DATA messages queued for the old configuration are processed before
the compilation starts.

In case of fatal failure and loss of data, Hub server ignores all DATA
messages until it gets a new CONFIG message. A periodic configuration update
schedule should be defined. If no configuration changes occur within a
certain period of time, Spoke server periodically sends the CONFIG messages
with the same timestamp.


=head2 Message format

Message is a text in email-like format: it starts with a header, followed by
an empty line and the body. Single dot (.) in a line specifies the end of
the message. Blocks within a CONFIG message are separated with semicolon (;),
each block representing a single datasource leaf.

Example:

 MsgID:100001
 Type:CONFIG
 Timestamp:1085528682

 level2-token:T0005
 level2-path:/Routers/RTR1/Interface_Counters/Ethernet0/InOctets
 vertical-label:bps
 ....
 ;
 level2-token:T0006
 level2-path:/Routers/RTR1/Interface_Counters/Ethernet0/OutOctets
 vertical-label:bps
 .
 MsgID:100002
 Type:DATA
 Timestamp:1085528690

 T0005:12345678
 T0006:987654321
 .




=head1 Author

Copyright (c) 2004 Stanislav Sinyagin E<lt>ssinyagin@yahoo.comE<gt>
