#  Copyright (C) 2002  Stanislav Sinyagin
#
#  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
#  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#  GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
#  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

# $Id: wd.monitor-escalation.pod,v 1.1 2010-12-27 00:04:36 ivan Exp $
# Stanislav Sinyagin <ssinyagin@yahoo.com>
#
#

=head1 RRFW Working Draft: Monitor escalation levels

Status: pending implementation.
Date: Nov 5 2003. Last revised: Nov 10 2003

=head2 Introduction

The initial idea comes from Francois Mikus in Cricket development team.
His proposal was to raise the alarm only after several true consecutive
monitor conditions.

The idea has developed into the concept of escalation levels.


=head2 Monitor events

Current implementation supports four types of monitor events: C<set>,
C<repeat>, C<clear>, and C<forget>. New event type will be C<escalate(X)>.
C<X> designates a symbolic name for a certain escalation level. Each level
is associated with the escalation time interval.

Given C<Te> as the escalation interval, C<Ta> as the monitor condition age,
and C<P> as period, the escalation event will occur simultaneously with
one of C<repeat> events, when the following condition is true:

  Te >= Ta

New event types C<clear(X)> and C<forget(X)> will occur at the same
time as C<clear> and C<forget> respectively,
for each escalated level.


=head2 Monitor parameters

New parameter will be introduced: C<escalation>. Value will
be a comma-separated list of C<name=interval> parts, where C<name>
designates the escalation level, and C<interval> specifies the escalation
interval in seconds.

Example:

  <monitor name="rate-limits">
    <param name="escalation value="Medium=1800, High=7200, Critical=14400" />
    ...
  </monitor>

Another example would be Cisco TAC style priorities: P3, P2, P1.


=head2 Action parameters

C<launch-when> parameter will be valid not for C<exec> actions only, but also
for C<tset> actions. New valid values will be C<escalate(X)>, C<clear(X)>,
and C<forget(X)>.

XML configuration validator will not verify if escalation levels in
action definition match those in datasource configuration.

New optional action parameter: C<allowed-time>. Contains an RPN expression
which must be true at the time when the action is allowed to execute.
Two new RPN functions may be used here: C<TOD> and C<DOW>.

C<TOD> returns the current time of day as integer: C<HH*100+MM>. For example,
830 means 8:30 AM, and 1945 means 7:45 PM.

C<DOW> returns the current day of the week as integer between and including
0 and 6, with 0 corresponding to Sunday, 1 to Monday, and 6 to Saturday.

In this example, the action is allowed between 8 AM and 6 PM from Monday
to Friday:

  <param name="allowed-time">
    TOD,800,GE, TOD,1800,LE, AND,
    DOW,1,GE, AND,
    DOW,5,LE, AND
  </param>


=head2 Implementation

B<monitor_alarms.db> database format will change: The values will consist
of five colon-separated fields. The first four fields will be as earilier,
and the fifth one will be a comma-separated list of escalation level names
that have already fired.

The implementation of this feature is preferred after the planned redesign of
the monitor daemon. The new monitor design would support individual
schedule for each datasource leaf, analogous to collector schedules.

In turn, the monitor daemon  redesign is better to do after
the collector daemon redesign. Then it would allow to keep similar design
and architecture where possible.

=head1 Author

Copyright (c) 2003 Stanislav Sinyagin E<lt>ssinyagin@yahoo.comE<gt>
